here at euthanasia veterinarian in
Denver Colorado we know it can be
difficult to put your pet down if you've
been with him or her for a while
and you share years of memories but when
a pet is terminally ill or has aged over
the years one of the most compassionate
things you can do is have the
veterinarian give your pet euthanasia so
that your pet can end his life in peace
and without all the pain previously
suffered up until that time each
veterinarian has his own method of
euthanasia but in general you would call
your local euthanasia veterinarian and
let us know you want your pet to be
euthanized you'll meet with our
veterinarian who has 20 years experience
and signed an agreement which gives your
consent to the euthanasia the
veterinarian will discuss your options
as well as why you feel the pet should
be euthanized after this the pet is
given a sedative which will create a
calming effect an IV catheter is then
placed in the pets vein then taped the
veterinarian then gives the pet an
anesthetic which will eventually put the
pet down permanently here are some signs
that your pet may be in need of
euthanasia if your dog or cat is in
tremendous pain and various treatments
haven't worked it may mean that
euthanasia could be the best option
other signs include loss of appetite and
a growing lack of self sufficiency
however these signs don't always mean
that the dog or cat should be euthanized
as each pet is different give us a call
if you need help making this decision if
you have children who were very close to
the pet you'll want to prepare them for
the euthanasia by discussing the pets
upcoming death and some health problems
which is leading to the pet soon death
expect your child to cry or even express
anger about the situation whether you'll
let the child see the euthanasia depends
on the age and maturity level of the
child once the euthanasia occurred
you'll begin a tough grieving process
and if you need assistance with this
contact a local counselor who
specializes in helping families who lost
pets through death another idea is to
create a tribute scrapbook to your dog
or cat filled with photos funny sayings
about pets and comforting poems
concerning a pets death you can decorate
it with dog bones your dog's old shirts
and his favorite toy get more
information at WWDC event ranarium calm